src/content/posts/words/about-this-site.md, before:

---
title: "About this Site"
description: "background on the tech stack of this site and a bit about its history"
date: "Jun 13 2025"
categories: ["site"]
---

_**Tl;dr**: This site now runs on Astro.js which I love working with and it has been a lot of fun to set up and learn. Astro combines ease of use with a lot of power and customization options. It's also crazy fast._

## History and Background

I've run a personal website of one kind of another for going on twenty years or so. Most of the time it has been Wordpress-based, sometimes managing the db and backend myself, sometimes using a modern turnkey type of host. It started in my time as a DJ and music producer. Later, in the early days of social media, while I was working for the Palm Beach County Library System, I wrote some popular posts on using social media to promote libraries, some of which were referenced in various Master of Library Science programs.

When I moved on from that position, my personal website fell by the wayside a bit. I was working on an English degree, so I was writing a lot for that, not to mention my own fiction projects, which will still someday see the light of day.

With social media, personal sites also diminished in popularity some. Using Wordpress for me also made it somewhat hard to get excited about updating the site.

In 2025, my wife and I decided to move from Florida to Northern Virginia. While I learned a lot, I felt my career with Palm Beach County had probably run its course, and I was ready for a new challenge. As a side effect, in our transition, it's the first time since I was possibly 16 that I wasn't working a 40 hour (or more) work week.

When thinking about this site, I wanted to do something very minimal that puts content first, but still show quite subtle and careful design touches. Essentially everything I know about design is self-taught with a lot of effort and persistence. This site was built from the mini-blog Astro theme, as a jumping-off point, but has of course seen many customizations.

Commit message:

words page design and some description updates

src/content/posts/words/about-this-site.md, after:

---
title: "About this Site"
description: "The background of this site, with some history mixed in, and some details about the latest update to Astro.js."
date: "Jun 13 2025"
categories: ["site"]
---

_**Tl;dr**: This site now runs on Astro.js which I love working with and it has been a lot of fun to set up and learn. Astro combines ease of use with a lot of power and customization options. It's also crazy fast._

## History and Background

I've run a personal website of one kind of another for going on twenty years or so. Most of the time it has been Wordpress-based, sometimes managing the db and backend myself, sometimes using a modern turnkey type of host. It started in my time as a DJ and music producer. Later, in the early days of social media, while I was working for the Palm Beach County Library System, I wrote some popular posts on using social media to promote libraries, some of which were referenced in various Master of Library Science programs.

When I moved on from that position, my personal website fell by the wayside a bit. I was working on an English degree, so I was writing a lot for that, not to mention my own fiction projects, which will still someday see the light of day.

With social media, personal sites also diminished in popularity some. Using Wordpress for me also made it somewhat hard to get excited about updating the site.

In 2025, my wife and I decided to move from Florida to Northern Virginia. While I learned a lot, I felt my career with Palm Beach County had probably run its course, and I was ready for a new challenge. As a side effect, in our transition, it's the first time since I was possibly 16 that I wasn't working a 40 hour (or more) work week.

When thinking about this site, I wanted to do something very minimal that puts content first, but still show quite subtle and careful design touches. Essentially everything I know about design is self-taught with a lot of effort and persistence. This site was built from the mini-blog Astro theme, as a jumping-off point, but has of course seen many customizations.
