src/content/posts/about.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
description: "Things I am."
date: "Jun 12 2025"
categories: ["about"]
---

## Hi.

I'm David, also known as kelly d, an alias that came about primarily in an attempt to be more memorable (?) and a bit more Google-friendly.

## Lightning Round

- I am an always-learning web developer
- I once wrote a personal bio for myself that was configured as a fill-in-the-blank Madlib
- I once had Roxane Gay as a professor, a Creative Writing course in which our primary semester assignment was to write a novel, which I hope to publish someday
- I am a jack-of-all-trades in a career track that often values specialization, but this has enabled me to bring value to any project, no matter the focus
- I like to think of myself as a Swiss Army knife in that I can fill any area of greatest need, which is how I became somewhat front end focused
- I am .. was? .. a 5th-generation Floridian that recently relocated to Northern Virginia with my wife
- I believe that my English degree helps me bring certain skills that can be not only valuable, but also less common, in tech-centric lines of work
- I take pride in being a _Big Picture™_ person with foresight
- I wrote and produced electronic music many years ago as _kelly d_, _kelly dallen_, or _metafakt_, most of which was not so great, but is still a hobby

Commit message:

add a bit more to projects and tighten up some of the layout, including mobile and tablet

src/content/posts/about.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
description: "Things I am."
date: "Jun 12 2025"
categories: ["about"]
---

## Hi.

I'm David, also known as kelly d, an alias that came about primarily in an attempt to be more memorable (?) and a bit more Google-friendly.

### Check out my recent [projects](/projects).

### Check out what I'm into [now](/now).

### Check out my [resume](/posts/resume).

## Lightning Round

- I am an always-learning web developer
- I once wrote a personal bio for myself that was configured as a fill-in-the-blank Madlib
- I once had Roxane Gay as a professor, a Creative Writing course in which our primary semester assignment was to write a novel, which I hope to publish someday
- I am a jack-of-all-trades in a career track that often values specialization, but this has enabled me to bring value to any project, no matter the focus
- I like to think of myself as a Swiss Army knife in that I can fill any area of greatest need, which is how I became somewhat front end focused
- I am ... (was?) ... a 5th-generation Floridian that recently relocated to Northern Virginia with my wife
- I believe that my English degree helps me bring certain skills that can be not only valuable, but also less common, in tech-centric lines of work
- I take pride in being a _Big Picture™_ person with foresight to see the challenges before they arise
- I wrote and produced electronic music many years ago as _kelly d_, _kelly dallen_, or _metafakt_, most of which was not so great, but is still a hobby
